## Basic Concepts

### Steps

A workflow consists of a series of connected steps.  Each step produces an outcome value and subsequent steps are triggered by subscribing to a particular outcome of a preceeding step.  The default outcome of *null* can be used for a basic linear workflow.
Steps are usually defined by inheriting from the `StepBody` or `StepBodyAsync` abstract classes and implementing the Run/RunAsync method.  They can also be created inline while defining the workflow structure.

#### First we define some steps

```C#
public class HelloWorld : StepBody
{
    public override ExecutionResult Run(IStepExecutionContext context)
    {
        Console.WriteLine("Hello world");
        return ExecutionResult.Next();
    }
}
```
*The `StepBody` and `StepBodyAsync` class implementations are constructed by the workflow host which first tries to use IServiceProvider for dependency injection, if it can't construct it with this method, it will search for a parameterless constructor*

#### Then we define the workflow structure by composing a chain of steps.  The is done by implementing the IWorkflow interface.

```C#
public class HelloWorldWorkflow : IWorkflow
{
    public string Id => "HelloWorld";
    public int Version => 1;

    public void Build(IWorkflowBuilder<object> builder)
    {
        builder
            .StartWith<HelloWorld>()
            .Then<GoodbyeWorld>();
    }  
}
```
The *IWorkflow* interface also has a readonly Id property and readonly Version property.  These are generally static and are used by the workflow host to identify a workflow definition.

#### You can also define your steps inline

```C#
public class HelloWorldWorkflow : IWorkflow
{
    public string Id => "HelloWorld";
    public int Version => 1;

    public void Build(IWorkflowBuilder<object> builder)
    {
        builder
            .StartWith(context =>
            {
                Console.WriteLine("Hello world");
                return ExecutionResult.Next();
            })
            .Then(context =>
            {
                Console.WriteLine("Goodbye world");
                return ExecutionResult.Next();
            });
    }
}
```

Each running workflow is persisted to the chosen persistence provider between each step, where it can be picked up at a later point in time to continue execution.  The outcome result of your step can instruct the workflow host to defer further execution of the workflow until a future point in time or in response to an external event.

The first time a particular step within the workflow is called, the PersistenceData property on the context object is *null*.  The ExecutionResult produced by the Run method can either cause the workflow to proceed to the next step by providing an outcome value, instruct the workflow to sleep for a defined period or simply not move the workflow forward.  If no outcome value is produced, then the step becomes re-entrant by setting PersistenceData, so the workflow host will call this step again in the future buy will populate the PersistenceData with it's previous value.

For example, this step will initially run with *null* PersistenceData and put the workflow to sleep for 12 hours, while setting the PersistenceData to *new Object()*.  12 hours later, the step will be called again but context.PersistenceData will now contain the object constructed in the previous iteration, and will now produce an outcome value of *null*, causing the workflow to move forward.

```C#
public class SleepStep : StepBody
{
    public override ExecutionResult Run(IStepExecutionContext context)
    {
        if (context.PersistenceData == null)
            return ExecutionResult.Sleep(Timespan.FromHours(12), new Object());
        else
            return ExecutionResult.Next();
    }
}
```

### Host

The workflow host is the service responsible for executing workflows.  It does this by polling the persistence provider for workflow instances that are ready to run, executes them and then passes them back to the persistence provider to by stored for the next time they are run.  It is also responsible for publishing events to any workflows that may be waiting on one.

#### Setup

Use the *AddWorkflow* extension method for *IServiceCollection* to configure the workflow host upon startup of your application.
By default, it is configured with *MemoryPersistenceProvider* and *SingleNodeConcurrencyProvider* for testing purposes.  You can also configure a DB persistence provider at this point.

```C#
services.AddWorkflow();
```

#### Usage

When your application starts, grab the workflow host from the built-in dependency injection framework *IServiceProvider*.  Make sure you call *RegisterWorkflow*, so that the workflow host knows about all your workflows, and then call *Start()* to fire up the thread pool that executes workflows.  Use the *StartWorkflow* method to initiate a new instance of a particular workflow.


```C#
var host = serviceProvider.GetService<IWorkflowHost>();            
host.RegisterWorkflow<HelloWorldWorkflow>();
host.Start();

host.StartWorkflow("HelloWorld", 1, null);

Console.ReadLine();
host.Stop();
```



## Injecting dependencies into steps

Illustrates the use of dependency injection for workflow steps.

Consider the following service

```C#
public interface IMyService
{
    void DoTheThings();
}
...
public class MyService : IMyService
{
    public void DoTheThings()
    {
        Console.WriteLine("Doing stuff...");
    }
}
```

Which is consumed by a workflow step as follows

```C#
public class DoSomething : StepBody
{
    private IMyService _myService;

    public DoSomething(IMyService myService)
    {
        _myService = myService;
    }

    public override ExecutionResult Run(IStepExecutionContext context)
    {
        _myService.DoTheThings();
        return ExecutionResult.Next();
    }
}
```

Simply add both the service and the workflow step as transients to the service collection when setting up your IoC container.

```C#
IServiceCollection services = new ServiceCollection();
services.AddLogging();
services.AddWorkflow();
            
services.AddTransient<DoSomething>();
services.AddTransient<IMyService, MyService>();
```


